content/docs/sort_and_search/169.md, before:

---
title: 169. Majority Element
parent: sort_and_search
has_children: false
nav_order: 4
permalink: /docs/169
---
# 169. Majority Element
[leetcode link](https://leetcode.com/problems/majority-element/)

**difficulty(1-5)** 
4

**notes**   


## Description

Given an array of size n, find the majority element. The majority element is the element that appears more than ⌊ n/2 ⌋ times.
You may assume that the array is non-empty and the majority element always exist in the array.
```
Example 1:
Input: [3,2,3]
Output: 3
Example 2:
Input: [2,2,1,1,1,2,2]
Output: 2
```

## Solution 1: O(n) time, O(1) extra space needed

This is actually, a method from a paper. :)

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int majorityElement(vector<int>& nums) {
        int cnts = 0;
        int tmp;
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); i++) {
            if (cnts == 0) {
                tmp = nums[i];
                cnts ++;
            }
            else {
                cnts = (nums[i] == tmp) ? (cnts+1) : (cnts - 1);                
            }
        }
        return tmp;
    }
};
```
## Solution 2: O(n) time, O(n) space
```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int majorityElement(vector<int>& nums) {
        unordered_map<int,int> m; // num - times
        int n = nums.size();
        for (auto num : nums) {
            if (m.count(num)) {
                ++m[num];
            }
            else {
                m[num] = 1;
            }
            if (m[num] > n/2) {
                return num;
            }
        }
        return -1; // ? this should not happen.
    }
};
```

## Solution 3: O(nlogn) time, O(1) space sorting!

sort完了以后中间那个数肯定是属于 majority numbers 中的一员.
```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int majorityElement(vector<int>& nums) {
        sort(nums.begin(), nums.end());
        return nums[nums.size()/2];
    }
};
```

Commit message:

change nav_order to weight so that pages are sorted from harder->easier order. HUGO rocks

content/docs/sort_and_search/169.md, after:

# 169. Majority Element

[leetcode link](https://leetcode.com/problems/majority-element/)

**difficulty(1-5)** 
5

**notes**   
next: [majority element II]()

## Description

Given an array of size n, find the majority element. The majority element is the element that appears more than ⌊ n/2 ⌋ times.
You may assume that the array is non-empty and the majority element always exist in the array.
```
Example 1:
Input: [3,2,3]
Output: 3
Example 2:
Input: [2,2,1,1,1,2,2]
Output: 2
```

## Solution 1: O(n) time, O(1) extra space needed

Overral thoughts:
    In a voting scenario, the basic concept is “Let’s cancel each others’ vote!”

    When there are n votes and two majorities in it. Cancel everybody’s vote 1 by 1 is a good way. Because two majorities has the confidence to have remaining votes while others die out.


```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int majorityElement(vector<int>& nums) {
        int cnts = 0;
        int tmp;
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); i++) {
            if (cnts == 0) {
                tmp = nums[i];
                cnts ++;
            }
            else {
                cnts = (nums[i] == tmp) ? (cnts+1) : (cnts - 1);                
            }
        }
        return tmp;
    }
};
```
## Solution 2: O(n) time, O(n) space
```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int majorityElement(vector<int>& nums) {
        unordered_map<int,int> m; // num - times
        int n = nums.size();
        for (auto num : nums) {
            if (m.count(num)) {
                ++m[num];
            }
            else {
                m[num] = 1;
            }
            if (m[num] > n/2) {
                return num;
            }
        }
        return -1; // ? this should not happen.
    }
};
```

## Solution 3: O(nlogn) time, O(1) space sorting!

sort完了以后中间那个数肯定是属于 majority numbers 中的一员.
```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int majorityElement(vector<int>& nums) {
        sort(nums.begin(), nums.end());
        return nums[nums.size()/2];
    }
};
```
