---
weight: 2
---
# 754. Reach a Number

[leetcode link](https://leetcode.com/problems/reach-a-number/)

**difficulty(1-5)** 
5

**notes**   


## Description

You are standing at position 0 on an infinite number line. There is a goal at position target.

On each move, you can either go left or right. During the n-th move (starting from 1), you take n steps.

Return the minimum number of steps required to reach the destination.

Example 1:
Input: target = 3
Output: 2
Explanation:
On the first move we step from 0 to 1.
On the second step we step from 1 to 3.
Example 2:
Input: target = 2
Output: 3
Explanation:
On the first move we step from 0 to 1.
On the second move we step  from 1 to -1.
On the third move we step from -1 to 2.
Note:
target will be a non-zero integer in the range [-10^9, 10^9].

## Solution
Add 1 + 2 + 3 + ... + n until sum >= target.

1. If sum == target, good we return `n`.
2. diff = sum - target
   1. diff is even. 
   this means we can find an `x`, and `2x = diff` that
   `1+2+... + x-1 + x + x+1 +... n = old_sum`
   if we flip the sign (note this does not cost extra step)
   `1+2+... + x-1 -x + x+1 +... n = new_sum`
   `old_sum - 2x = new_sum = old_sum - diff = target`
   2. diff is odd
      1. n+1 is odd
      so that after adding n+1, diff is even, then we flip one number like before. 
      res = n+1. (note that flipping one number before does not cost extra step, only adding new numbers does)
      2. n+1 is even
      adding n+1 is not enough to make diff even, we need to add n+2. then flip one number like before.
      res = n+2.  (note that flipping one number before does not cost extra step, only adding new numbers does)


```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int reachNumber(int target) {
        target = abs(target);
        int n = 1;
        int sum = 0;
        while(sum < target){
            sum += n;
            n++;
        }
        n--;
        if(sum == target){
            return n;
        }
        int diff = sum - target;
        if ((diff&1) == 0){
            return n;
        }
        else{
            return n + ((n&1) ? 2 : 1);
        }
    }
};
```