---
title: 71. Simplify Path
weight: 3
---
# 71. Simplify Path

[leetcode link](https://leetcode.com/problems/simplify-path/)

**difficulty(1-5)** 


**notes**   


## Description

Given an absolute path for a file (Unix-style), simplify it. Or in other words, convert it to the canonical path.

In a UNIX-style file system, a period . refers to the current directory. Furthermore, a double period .. moves the directory up a level.

Note that the returned canonical path must always begin with a slash /, and there must be only a single slash / between two directory names. The last directory name (if it exists) must not end with a trailing /. Also, the canonical path must be the shortest string representing the absolute path.

 

Example 1:

Input: "/home/"
Output: "/home"
Explanation: Note that there is no trailing slash after the last directory name.
Example 2:

Input: "/../"
Output: "/"
Explanation: Going one level up from the root directory is a no-op, as the root level is the highest level you can go.
Example 3:

Input: "/home//foo/"
Output: "/home/foo"
Explanation: In the canonical path, multiple consecutive slashes are replaced by a single one.
Example 4:

Input: "/a/./b/../../c/"
Output: "/c"
Example 5:

Input: "/a/../../b/../c//.//"
Output: "/c"
Example 6:

Input: "/a//b////c/d//././/.."
Output: "/a/b/c"

## Solution

Stack. It's actually really easy - let's ignore '/', then there is 3 conditions in between '/':
1. `.` or nothing: don't care
2. string, folder name, push to stack
3. `..`: pop one item from stack, if stack not empty

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    string simplifyPath(string path) {
        stack<string> stk;
        istringstream iss(path);
        string s;
        while(getline(iss, s, '/')){
            if(s == ".."){
                if(!stk.empty()){
                    stk.pop();
                }
            }
            else if (s.size() > 0 && s != "."){
                stk.push(s);
            }
        }
        if (stk.empty()){
            return "/";
        }
        string res;
        while(!stk.empty()){
            res = "/" + stk.top() + res;
            stk.pop();
        }
        return res;
    }
};
```