content/docs/BFS_DFS/323.md, before:

---
weight: 5
---
# 323. Number of Connected Components in an Undirected Graph
[leetcode link]()

**difficulty(1-5)** 
2

**notes**   


## Description
Given n nodes labeled from 0 to n - 1 and a list of undirected edges (each edge is a pair of nodes), write a function to find the number of connected components in an undirected graph.
Example 1:
Input: n = 5 and edges = [[0, 1], [1, 2], [3, 4]]

     0          3
     |          |
     1 --- 2    4 

Output: 2
Example 2:
Input: n = 5 and edges = [[0, 1], [1, 2], [2, 3], [3, 4]]

     0           4
     |           |
     1 --- 2 --- 3

Output:  1
Note:
You can assume that no duplicate edges will appear in edges. Since all edges are undirected, [0, 1] is the same as [1, 0] and thus will not appear together in edges.


## Solution:BFS

1. build Adjacency list
2. BFS for any unvisited nodes, mark all adjacent nodes as 'visited', and increment result by 1

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int countComponents(int n, vector<pair<int, int>>& edges) {
        vector<vector<int>> neighbors(n);
        for (auto p : edges) {
            neighbors[p.first].push_back(p.second);
            neighbors[p.second].push_back(p.first);
        }
        vector<bool> visited(n, false);
        
        int res = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            if (!visited[i]) {
                res ++;
                bfs(i, visited, neighbors);
            }
        }
        return res;
    }

    void bfs(int i, vector<bool>& visited, vector<vector<int>>& neighbors) {
        queue<int> q;
        q.push(i);
        visited[i] = true;
        while (!q.empty()) {
            int cur = q.front(); q.pop();
            for (auto neighbor : neighbors[cur]) {
                if (!visited[neighbor]) {
                    visited[neighbor] = true;
                    q.push(neighbor);
                }
            }
        }
    }
};
```

Commit message:

add problems, add title to lots of md files

content/docs/BFS_DFS/323.md, after:

---
title: 323. Number of Connected Components in an Undirected Graph
weight: 5
---
# 323. Number of Connected Components in an Undirected Graph
[leetcode link]()

**difficulty(1-5)** 
2

**notes**   


## Description
Given n nodes labeled from 0 to n - 1 and a list of undirected edges (each edge is a pair of nodes), write a function to find the number of connected components in an undirected graph.
Example 1:
Input: n = 5 and edges = [[0, 1], [1, 2], [3, 4]]

     0          3
     |          |
     1 --- 2    4 

Output: 2
Example 2:
Input: n = 5 and edges = [[0, 1], [1, 2], [2, 3], [3, 4]]

     0           4
     |           |
     1 --- 2 --- 3

Output:  1
Note:
You can assume that no duplicate edges will appear in edges. Since all edges are undirected, [0, 1] is the same as [1, 0] and thus will not appear together in edges.


## Solution:BFS

1. build Adjacency list
2. BFS for any unvisited nodes, mark all adjacent nodes as 'visited', and increment result by 1

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int countComponents(int n, vector<pair<int, int>>& edges) {
        vector<vector<int>> neighbors(n);
        for (auto p : edges) {
            neighbors[p.first].push_back(p.second);
            neighbors[p.second].push_back(p.first);
        }
        vector<bool> visited(n, false);
        
        int res = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            if (!visited[i]) {
                res ++;
                bfs(i, visited, neighbors);
            }
        }
        return res;
    }

    void bfs(int i, vector<bool>& visited, vector<vector<int>>& neighbors) {
        queue<int> q;
        q.push(i);
        visited[i] = true;
        while (!q.empty()) {
            int cur = q.front(); q.pop();
            for (auto neighbor : neighbors[cur]) {
                if (!visited[neighbor]) {
                    visited[neighbor] = true;
                    q.push(neighbor);
                }
            }
        }
    }
};
```
