---
title: 39. Combination Sum
weight: 2
---
# 39. Combination Sum
[leetcode link](https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum/)

**difficulty(1-5)** 
3.5

**notes**   


## Description
Given an array of distinct integers candidates and a target integer target, return a list of all unique combinations of candidates where the chosen numbers sum to target. You may return the combinations in any order.

The same number may be chosen from candidates an unlimited number of times. Two combinations are unique if the frequency of at least one of the chosen numbers is different.

The test cases are generated such that the number of unique combinations that sum up to target is less than 150 combinations for the given input.

Example 1:

Input: candidates = [2,3,6,7], target = 7,
A solution set is:
[
  [7],
  [2,2,3]
]

Example 2:

Input: candidates = [2,3,5], target = 8,
A solution set is:
[
  [2,2,2,2],
  [2,3,3],
  [3,5]
]

Constraints:

1 <= candidates.length <= 30
2 <= candidates[i] <= 40
All elements of candidates are distinct.
1 <= target <= 500

## Solution: DFS

note: 
1. Any number in candidates[] can be chosen unlimited times. 
2. No dupe in candidates, candidates all positive, target is postive

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    vector<vector<int>> combinationSum(vector<int>& candidates, int target) {
        /* In the problem it says: All numbers (including target) will be positive integers.
        */
        sort(candidates.begin(), candidates.end());
        vector<vector<int>> res;
        vector<int> subset;
        dfs(candidates, subset, 0, target, res);
        return res;
    }
    void dfs(vector<int>& candidates, vector<int> subset, int start, int target, vector<vector<int>>& res){
        if (target == 0){
            res.push_back(subset);
            return; // here we can return because all numbers in set and target is positive. Otherwise this is wrong to return here!!!
        }
        // put ` && target >= candidates[i]` in check statement so it does not need to go into next layer of dfs, to save time.
        for (int i = start; i < candidates.size() && target >= candidates[i]; i++){
            subset.push_back(candidates[i]);
            dfs(candidates, subset, i, target - candidates[i], res);
            subset.pop_back();
        }
    }
};
```


 